---
layout:     post
title:      "Everglow's iii-7 Chord"
subtitle:   "Coldplay's go-to"
date:       2016-01-02 12:00:00
author:     "Yowon Yoon"
header-img: "../img/post-bg-01.jpg"
---

<p>I've listened to Coldplay's song "Everglow" maybe 40 times since it was released a couple months ago. Upon my first listen, I was immediately drawn to it, with its vi-IV-I-Vish chord progression reminiscient of all of Coldplay's biggest hits like "Scientist" and "A Sky Full of Stars".</p>

<p>After going to the piano and learning the piano lick for "Everglow", I realized that what makes this overused chord progression more unique in Coldplay's case is the fact that instead of going to the V at the end of each phrase, Martin substitutes the dominant with a iii-7 chord with a bit of cluster via the 4-3 sus from the V to create a much more interesting cadence. It's a bit more subtle in "Everglow", but going back to "A Sky Full of Stars", this modified iii-7 chord really characterizes the song. Functionally, the cadential chord is exactly the same, but by obscuring it's dominant sonorities, has created a much more lilting and floating listening sensation.</p>

<p>Martin repeats the voicing almost exactly in "Everglow", and is probably why I was so hooked to the song from the moment I heard it-since it's exactly the same as "A Sky Full of Stars". However, "Everglow" pairs this satisfying chord-progression with Coldplay's characteristic Ballad-esque singing/verse structure, catapulting this song into one of my all-time favorites by Coldplay.</p>

<p>I wish I could sing this song, but Martin's falsetto destroys mine, and lowering the key (from it's original E) means that most of the chorus would be at my break, or the verses would be too low to sing.</p>