---
layout:     post
title:      "4kyu and Efficiency"
subtitle:   "think like a human"
date:       2016-05-02
author:     "Yowon Yoon"
---

A few days ago, I hit [4kyu on Codewars](http://www.codewars.com/users/MrMonsk). There's an unofficial [google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eseD5xyhGdtQ-DaWdqfK2yf6mvTDWHWEpkQGBppI8cw/edit?usp=sharing) that suggests that 3-4kyu denotes 'competency' in programming. 

Don't get me wrong, I still suck at coding, but I just suck a little bit less. I've got a few more tricks up my sleeve, I'm better at finding the right SO post, and a tad better at braking down the problems into manageable sub-routines. 

One of my friends gave me some great advice a few weeks ago about how to solve coding problems, and it has made the process of solving problems much easier. 

>Don't try to think like a computer, try to think like a human, then force the computer to think like a human

It's weird, because so much of learning _how_ to code is understanding the syntatical jargon to communicate with a computer. Obviously, there is an initial stage of understanding how to 'tell a computer what to do', but the breakdown of a more complicated problem should be approached the way a human would solve the problem. For example, let's imagine a scenario where the input is an unsorted list of n numbers with n > 3, and we just want the three largest numbers from that list.

Previously, I would have sorted the list using Ruby's `.sort` method and return the first three indices. This is fine for small numbers of n, but as n grows, even with a good sorting algorithm (such as mergesort), we get a time complexity of O(n log n), not to mention that the sorted list would also be O(n) space complexity.
The code for this sort of solution is quite simple though:

{% highlight ruby %}
def three_largest(list)
  list.sort.last(3)
end
{% endhighlight %}

However, a human could do this problem much better (i.e. time of O(n) and space of O(3)). Personally, I'm too lazy / unable to hold more than a few values in my head at a time, and really what's important in this problem are the three largest values. So at any given moment, I probably don't want to have any more than three values in my head. Sure, if the list is already sorted, I can just read the first three values, but if it's not, I _definitely_ don't want to sort through the list first and _then_ find the largest. Instead, I would just keep an updated list of the three _current_ largest values as I go through the list until I'm left with the three largest. Now translate that to code:

{% highlight ruby %}
def three_largest(list)
  maxs = []
  list.each do |e|
    min = Float::INFINITY #could also just use some hard-coded large number
    min_index = 0
    if maxs.length < 3
      maxs << e
    else
      maxs.each_index do |index|
        if maxs[index] < min
          min_index = index
          min = maxs[index]
        end
      end
      if e > min
        maxs[min_index] = e
      end
    end
  end
  maxs
end
{% endhighlight %}

A little messy, but more efficient.

######Some Ruby-er Things

To conclude, even though I now think about code efficiency and being very clear with what I want, there are definitely a bunch of Ruby tricks that I've picked up through ranking up in Codewars that are just _nice_.

Here are just a few of my favorites:
1. Passing blocks to various enumerable methods:
..* ex: `array.map(&:to_s)`, and in some cases, like `.reduce` or `.inject`, Ruby automatically assembles a block from symbols, giving us beauts like `array.reduce(:+)`.
2. One-liner to map frequency of array elements to a hash:
..* ex: `array.each_with_object(Hash.new(0)) { |e,counts| counts[e] += 1 }`
3. Ternary operators everywhere:
..* ex: `expression ? then : else` AND one can chain these together (parens optional.. lol)